# Week 6 Meeting Minutes - 02/11/2017

At the start of the meeting, I showed my initial dataset to John.
John said that the images were very good, and that the structure of the dataset was good.
John then pointed out that all photos were taken on a reflective surface, and that it would be good to repeat the photos but on a non-reflective surface.
John also suggested making a system in which the knots would always appear in the centre of every photograph.
I suggested that for the next set of photos I should use a tri-pod to fix the camera in one place.
We also concluded that the reflctive/non-reflective background is yet another variable to explore in this early analysis of knot classification.
I suggested to gather more data, this time using a non-reflective background, over the next 2 weeks.

Then, I brought up an issue I experienced in the dataset.
I wanted to upload the dataset to my GitHub repository, however, the dataset is 1.84 GB large.
I mentioned that this large file size poses a problem in terms of distributing the dataset.
John then suggested that I make a script that will create a copied dataset, this time with resized images.
John stated that this very important, and it provides more clarity to users on what processes the images undergo pre-training, and more importantly, this automates the training process.
John went on to state that it is very important to automate as many procedures as possible in this project, as this allows for easier usability and distribution.
I absolutely agreed to all these points, and suggested that a goal for the next week should be writing a bash script to resize a dataset.

We concluded the meeting by restating that it is important to make software that can easily reproduce findings described in the dissertation.
