# Week 5 Meeting Minutes - 26/10/2017

During the previous week, I drafted a plan for the dataset, and so we agreed that over the next week I can start gathering data for the five knots I identified.
I then asked John how I should upload my dataset to the repo, whether I should gzip the images or not?
John then suggested that I should upload the binary files directly, as this is more open to users.

We then discussed how I planned on organising the dataset.
We both came to the conclusion that a .yml file could be the most manageable way of describing the properties of each image.

John then gave feedback on the dissertation I had proposed earlier.
John suggested that I perhaps add a scope section to the dissertation, in order to outline the goals of this project to the reader.
I certainly agreed on this.
This then prompted me to ask about my implementation section.
I wondered whether it makes sense to have a section for the classification and a section for GANs etc. or whether I should have a big implementation section with subsections.
John stated that it is more readable to make classification etc. subsections of the implementation section.
I updated my dissertation structure accordingly.
